Disable bits of rails (#119)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-03-08-turn-off-the-bits-of-rails-you-dont-use.md

---
title: "Turn off the bits of Rails you don't use"
description: "Reduce complexity, reduce overhead"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2021/turn-off-the-bits-of-rails-you-dont-use"
  alt: "Purple lit bank of audio switches"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/n4BDkIEls78"
  credit: "Denisse Leon"
---

> The Rails Framework consists of multiple interlocking systems that work together. These systems typically begin with "Action" or "Active" e.g. Active Record, Active Support, Action Pack etc.

Reviewer: Do we need "interlocking" and "work together"? 🤔

*The name of these systems...

> The Rails Framework consists of multiple subsystems that work together. The names of these systems typically begin with "Action" or "Active" e.g. Active Record, Active Support, Action Pack etc.

Reviewer: comma after "Action Pack"

Author: ```suggestion
The Rails Framework consists of multiple subsystems that work together. The names of these systems typically begin with "Action" or "Active" e.g. Active Record, Active Support, Action Pack, etc.
```

> You can see the individual component gems as directories in the [`rails/rails` repo on github](https://github.com/rails/rails).

Reviewer: GitHub

Author: ```suggestion
You can see the individual component gems as directories in the [`rails/rails` repo on GitHub](https://github.com/rails/rails).
```

> You can see the individual componnent gems as directories in the [`rails/rails` repo on github](https://github.com/rails/rails).

Reviewer: *component

Author: ```suggestion
You can see the individual component gems as directories in the [`rails/rails` repo on github](https://github.com/rails/rails).
```

> There has been a continual process of adding, new, useful libraries to Rails ever since it's release. Things like Action Cable in Rails 5. Despite the addition of large new sub-frameworks there remains a focus on modularity since [Merb was merged into Rails](https://yehudakatz.com/2008/12/23/rails-and-merb-merge/) in version 3. (This was big Ruby news at the time!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There has been a continual process of adding new, useful libraries to Rails ever since its release. Things like Action Cable in Rails 5. Despite the addition of large new sub-frameworks there remains a focus on modularity since [Merb was merged into Rails](https://yehudakatz.com/2008/12/23/rails-and-merb-merge/) in version 3. (This was big Ruby news at the time!)
```

> There has been a continual process of adding new, useful libraries to Rails ever since its release. Things like Action Cable in Rails 5. Despite the addition of large new sub-frameworks there remains a focus on modularity since [Merb was merged into Rails](https://yehudakatz.com/2008/12/23/rails-and-merb-merge/) in version 3. (This was big Ruby news at the time!)

Reviewer: "Things like Action Cable...5" should not be a standalone sentence. Needs to be tacked on to the sentence before somehow.

Author: ```suggestion
There has been a continual process of adding new, useful libraries to Rails ever since its release. For example, the addition of web socket support via Action Cable was a major feature of Rails 5. Despite the addition of large new sub-frameworks there remains a focus on modularity since [Merb was merged into Rails](https://yehudakatz.com/2008/12/23/rails-and-merb-merge/) in version 3. (This was big Ruby news at the time!)
```

> There has been a continual process of adding new, useful libraries to Rails ever since its release. For example, the addition of web socket support via Action Cable was a major feature of Rails 5. Despite the addition of large new sub-frameworks there remains a focus on modularity since [Merb was merged into Rails](https://yehudakatz.com/2008/12/23/rails-and-merb-merge/) in version 3. (This was big Ruby news at the time!)

Reviewer: This paragraph seems a little confused. I get what you're saying...but it's kinda like: why are you saying it here (mainly the latter part of it).

Author: It's just context for why Rails is modular. It wasn't always. Lots of folk don't know it is.

Reviewer: Yes, I think maybe it could be said more explicitly, is all. Or maybe a reason as to why the modularity was a focus. Or maybe just a slight rewording, which might involve taking out the Merb bit..or: Rails has always had a focus on modularity, stemming back from when Merb.

It might just be that the wording seemed a little of when I was reading it through last time!

## Instead of ...

...including the whole of Rails:

### `config/application.rb`

```ruby
require_relative "boot"

require "rails/rails"

# ...
```

## Use...

...only the parts of Rails you want to.

### `config/application.rb`

```ruby
require_relative "boot"

require "rails"
# Pick the frameworks you want:
require "active_model/railtie"
require "active_job/railtie"
require "active_record/railtie"
# require "active_storage/engine"
require "action_controller/railtie"
require "action_mailer/railtie"
# require "action_mailbox/engine"
# require "action_text/engine"
require "action_view/railtie"
# require "action_cable/engine"
# require "sprockets/railtie"
require "rails/test_unit/railtie"

# ...
```

This is a fairly typical approach for projects that I spin up.

> I often am building apps that do not need email in (Action Mailbox)

Reviewer: *I _am_ often...

> Often apps do not need "email in" (Action Mailbox) or real time WebSockets (Action Cable).

Reviewer: The phrase "email in" reads awkwardly. Would 'built-in email' be better?

Author: ```suggestion
Often apps do not need to receive email (Action Mailbox) or real time WebSockets (Action Cable).
```

> or real time WebSockets (Action Cable).

Reviewer: Why the line break?

> Often apps do not need to receive email (Action Mailbox) or real time WebSockets (Action Cable).

Reviewer: *or need real-time WebSocket?

Author: ```suggestion
Often apps do not need to receive email (Action Mailbox) or real-time WebSockets (Action Cable).
```

> I have also tended to use other solutions for file-uploading (Active Storage) and rich text (Action Text).

Reviewer: *file uploading

> Plus, these days, you might prefer to use webpack for everything so disable sprockets. (Although only because I generally _have_ to use webpack for JavaScript!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plus, these days, you might prefer to use webpack for everything. In that case, it makes sense to disable sprockets.
```

> Plus, these days, I prefer to use webpack for everything so I disable sprockets. (Although only because I generally _have_ to use webpack for JavaScript!)

Reviewer: I wonder if this whole section might be better reworded as a 'you might', rather than I, I I...or maybe weave in some "I"s but be more general about the other options people might use?

## Why?

> A slimmed down Rails stack will load and run more quickly because you're literally including less code. How much faster will be dependant on what features you include. The disabling of certain Rails components does allow for the addition of alternatives, e.g. [Sequel](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net) or [rom-rb](https://rom-rb.org) in place of of Active Record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A slimmed-down Rails stack will load and run more quickly because you're literally including less code. How much faster will be dependant on what features you include. The disabling of certain Rails components does allow for the addition of alternatives, e.g. [Sequel](http://sequel.jeremyevans.net) or [rom-rb](https://rom-rb.org) in place of of Active Record.
```

This last sentence here...just doesn't quite flow. It's like, well if you wanna use Sequel or rom-rb, then you need to disable AR, no? It seems a bit backwards.

The main reason to do this is a streamlining of extra configuration and an improvement in general project tidyness.

> It's a good idea to remove a third-party gem if your aren't using it, so it is often clearer to remove bits of Rails that are not being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a good idea to remove a third-party gem if you aren't using it. In the same way, it is often clearer to remove bits of Rails that are not being used.
```

> Just like I'd remove a third-party gem if I wasn't using it, I find it clearer to remove bits of Rails I'm not using.

Reviewer: Again, maybe less first-person more second-person/general advice?

> Additionally, if you want to use alternatives to certain Rails subsystems, maybe [rom-rb](https://rom-rb.org) in place of of Active Record, you might want to disable that subsystem rather than use side-by-side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you want to use alternatives to certain Rails subsystems — perhaps something like [rom-rb](https://rom-rb.org) in place of Active Record — you might want to disable Active Record rather than use them both side-by-side.
```

## Why not?

Rails is integrated. Any 'speed gains' are mostly neglibable once your app is loaded in a production environment.

> The components in the 'full' Rails stack are battle-tested, well maintained and nearly always a decent solution, even if your personal preferences lie elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components in the 'full' Rails stack are battle-tested, well maintained, and nearly always a decent solution, even if your personal preferences lie elsewhere.
```

> If you want to add one of the missing frameworks back into your application you may need to fiddle to get the correct configuration in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to add one of the missing frameworks back into your application it might be fiddly to get the correct configuration in place.
```
